README.md, before:

StewieOS
========

StewieOS is a simple hobby 32-bit x86 kernel/operating system. This is my third rewrite to date. The kernel is based on UNIX/POSIX standards although I cannot say I necessaraly follow those standards at all times. It is monolithic, higher-half kernel.It's nothing special at the moment, but I am looking forward to a day when I can boot it up and do something useful with it.

If you would like to see some screenshots or other random things I might upload aside from code, you can check out my [Google Drive folder](https://drive.google.com/folderview?id=0B8V-FEUiNZm4NjU1TWF5UTlWbGM&usp=sharing)

Building
--------

StewieOS is built with a special cross-compiled toolchain. I use GCC-4.9.0, Binutils-2.24, and Newlib 2.1.0. Within the repository, there is folder called "patches" the README file under patches/ will tell you how to build the toolchain. StewieOS also expects a UNIX/Linux environment. It should work in Cygwin under windows, although it has not been tested.

Once the toolchain is built, you can simply call `$ make` within the project root directory and all needed pieces will be compiled. You can then call `# make install_vhd`. The install\_vhd target will not affect your system. It simply installs the kernel to the virtual hard disk "stewieos.dd". This virtual disk needs to already exist, and can be created simply by running "stewieos_make_hdd.sh" under sudo. You need sudo because the script needs to setup a loopback device and partition/format the virtual disk. Once you have stewieos.dd, you can run make install.

Running
-------

Once it is installed, you can use the qemu.sh script to run a virtual machine or call bochs using the provided bochsrc script. Qemu.sh expects qemu-system-i386 to be installed, tells qemu to listen for GDB attachment and also passes all parameters to the script on to qemu itself. The bochsrc is nothing special. It just runs with stewieos.vhd as the hard disk. Although the name is misleading, stewieos.vhd is not actually a VirtualBox Compatable VHD. It is a flat hard disk image. You can either use a loopback device or look online about how to use a flat image with other emulators.

Commit message:

Removed obsolete patches directory and updated README.md

README.md, after:

StewieOS - Kernel Documentation
===============================

StewieOS is a learning project aimed at understand the underlying mechanics of modern operating systems. It is designed for the x86 architecture and follows a Unix design. At the time of writing, a custom toolchain has been compiled including a C library.

Getting Started - Environment
-----------------------------

If you are looking to build and test the StewieOS kernel (whether for development or not), you need the custom cross compiler/toolchain. The easiest way to obtain this is to go to the [root project](https://github.com/Caleb1994/stewieos) for StewieOS which aggregates all required pieces of the operating system with documentation on how to get your environment ready.

Getting Started - Building and Running
--------------------------------------

As said previously, you must the cross compiler in order to build the kernel. Once you have the cross compiler installed, the kernel is built with a standard Makefile like so:

```
$ make
[... lots of output ...]
```

The Makefile knows how to setup a testing hard disk image, and can do so with the `install_vhd` target.

```
$ sudo make install_vhd
```

This will create a 1GB virtual hard disk (flat binary format) and populate it with the correct partition table, file system, and GRUB installation to boot StewieOS. The script needs `sudo` access in order to create a loop back device and map its partitions for formatting. After this, you may run qemu using the useful qemu script provided. All parameters to the script are passed directly to qemu itself.

```
$ ./qemu.sh
```

That's it! You are now running StewieOS!
